"If it isn't Double-you-one-enn-five-tee-zero-enn," he said. Fredrick Benson -- Social 
Security number 545-03-2343, date of birth August 15 1962, mother's maiden name Di Bona, 
hometown Petaluma -- is a lot taller than me. I'm a runty 5'8", while he stands 6'7", 
and his college basketball days are far enough behind him that his chest muscles have 
turned into saggy man-boobs that were painfully obvious through his freebie dot-com 
polo-shirts. He always looks like he's about to slam-dunk your ass, and he's really into 
raising his voice for dramatic effect. Both these start to lose their efficacy with 
repeated application.

"Sorry, nope," I said. "I never heard of this R2D2 character of yours."

"W1n5t0n," he said, spelling it out again. He gave me a hairy eyeball and waited for me 
to wilt. Of course it was my handle, and had been for years. It was the identity I used 
when I was posting on message-boards where I was making my contributions to the field of 
applied security research. You know, like sneaking out of school and disabling the 
minder-tracer on my phone. But he didn't know that this was my handle. Only a small 
number of people did, and I trusted them all to the end of the earth.

"Um, not ringing any bells," I said. I'd done some pretty cool stuff around school using 
that handle -- I was very proud of my work on snitch-tag killers -- and if he could link 
the two identities, I'd be in trouble. No one at school ever called me w1n5t0n or even 
Winston. Not even my pals. It was Marcus or nothing.

Benson settled down behind his desk and tapped his class-ring nervously on his blotter. 
He did this whenever things started to go bad for him. Poker players call stuff like 
this a "tell" -- something that let you know what was going on in the other guy's head. 
I knew Benson's tells backwards and forwards.

"Marcus, I hope you realize how serious this is."

"I will just as soon as you explain what this is, sir." I always say "sir" to authority 
figures when I'm messing with them. It's my own tell.

He shook his head at me and looked down, another tell. Any second now, he was going to 
start shouting at me. "Listen, kiddo! It's time you came to grips with the fact that we 
know about what you've been doing, and that we're not going to be lenient about it. 
You're going to be lucky if you're not expelled before this meeting is through. Do you 
want to graduate?"

"Mr Benson, you still haven't explained what the problem is --"

He slammed his hand down on the desk and then pointed his finger at me. "The problem, Mr 
Yallow, is that you've been engaged in criminal conspiracy to subvert this school's 
security system, and you have supplied security countermeasures to your fellow students. 
You know that we expelled Graciella Uriarte last week for using one of your devices." 
Uriarte had gotten a bad rap. She'd bought a radio-jammer from a head-shop near the 16th 
Street BART station and it had set off the countermeasures in the school hallway. Not my 
doing, but I felt for her.

"And you think I'm involved in that?"

"We have reliable intelligence indicating that you are w1n5t0n" -- again, he spelled it 
out, and I began to wonder if he hadn't figured out that the 1 was an I and the 5 was an 
S. "We know that this w1n5t0n character is responsible for the theft of last year's 
standardized tests." That actually hadn't been me, but it was a sweet hack, and it was 
kind of flattering to hear it attributed to me. "And therefore liable for several years 
in prison unless you cooperate with me."

"You have 'reliable intelligence'? I'd like to see it."

He glowered at me. "Your attitude isn't going to help you."

"If there's evidence, sir, I think you should call the police and turn it over to them. 
It sounds like this is a very serious matter, and I wouldn't want to stand in the way of 
a proper investigation by the duly constituted authorities."

"You want me to call the police."

"And my parents, I think. That would be for the best."

We stared at each other across the desk. He'd clearly expected me to fold the second he 
dropped the bomb on me. I don't fold. I have a trick for staring down people like 
Benson. I look slightly to the left of their heads, and think about the lyrics to old 
Irish folk songs, the kinds with three hundred verses. It makes me look perfectly 
composed and unworried.

And the wing was on the bird and the bird was on the egg and the egg was in the nest and 
the nest was on the leaf and the leaf was on the twig and the twig was on the branch and 
the branch was on the limb and the limb was in the tree and the tree was in the bog -- 
the bog down in the valley-oh! High-ho the rattlin' bog, the bog down in the valley-oh --

"You can return to class now," he said. "I'll call on you once the police are ready to 
speak to you."

"Are you going to call them now?"

"The procedure for calling in the police is complicated. I'd hoped that we could settle 
this fairly and quickly, but since you insist --"

"I can wait while you call them is all," I said. "I don't mind."

He tapped his ring again and I braced for the blast.

"Go!" he yelled. "Get the hell out of my office, you miserable little --"

I got out, keeping my expression neutral. He wasn't going to call the cops. If he'd had 
enough evidence to go to the police with, he would have called them in the first place. 
He hated my guts. I figured he'd heard some unverified gossip and hoped to spook me into 
confirming it.

I moved down the corridor lightly and sprightly, keeping my gait even and measured for 
the gait-recognition cameras. These had been installed only a year before, and I loved 
them for their sheer idiocy. Beforehand, we'd had face-recognition cameras covering 
nearly every public space in school, but a court ruled that was unconstitutional. So 
Benson and a lot of other paranoid school administrators had spent our textbook dollars 
on these idiot cameras that were supposed to be able to tell one person's walk from 
another. Yeah, right.
