I'm a senior at Cesar Chavez high in San Francisco's sunny Mission district, and that 
makes me one of the most surveilled people in the world. My name is Marcus Yallow, but 
back when this story starts, I was going by w1n5t0n. Pronounced "Winston."

Not pronounced "Double-you-one-enn-five-tee-zero-enn" -- unless you're a clueless 
disciplinary officer who's far enough behind the curve that you still call the Internet 
"the information superhighway."

I know just such a clueless person, and his name is Fred Benson, one of three 
vice-principals at Cesar Chavez. He's a sucking chest wound of a human being. But if 
you're going to have a jailer, better a clueless one than one who's really on the ball.

"Marcus Yallow," he said over the PA one Friday morning. The PA isn't very good to begin 
with, and when you combine that with Benson's habitual mumble, you get something that 
sounds more like someone struggling to digest a bad burrito than a school announcement. 
But human beings are good at picking their names out of audio confusion -- it's a 
survival trait.

I grabbed my bag and folded my laptop three-quarters shut -- I didn't want to blow my 
downloads -- and got ready for the inevitable.

"Report to the administration office immediately."

My social studies teacher, Ms Galvez, rolled her eyes at me and I rolled my eyes back at 
her. The Man was always coming down on me, just because I go through school firewalls 
like wet kleenex, spoof the gait-recognition software, and nuke the snitch chips they 
track us with. Galvez is a good type, anyway, never holds that against me (especially 
when I'm helping get with her webmail so she can talk to her brother who's stationed in 
Iraq).

My boy Darryl gave me a smack on the ass as I walked past. I've known Darryl since we 
were still in diapers and escaping from play-school, and I've been getting him into and 
out of trouble the whole time. I raised my arms over my head like a prizefighter and 
made my exit from Social Studies and began the perp-walk to the office.

I was halfway there when my phone went. That was another no-no -- phones are muy 
prohibido at Chavez High -- but why should that stop me? I ducked into the toilet and 
shut myself in the middle stall (the furthest stall is always grossest because so many 
people head straight for it, hoping to escape the smell and the squick -- the smart 
money and good hygiene is down the middle). I checked the phone -- my home PC had sent 
it an email to tell it that there was something new up on Harajuku Fun Madness, which 
happens to be the best game ever invented.

I grinned. Spending Fridays at school was teh suck anyway, and I was glad of the excuse 
to make my escape.

I ambled the rest of the way to Benson's office and tossed him a wave as I sailed 
through the door.

