Every time I put a book online for free, I get emails from readers who
want to send me donations for the book. I appreciate their generous
spirit, but I'm not interested in cash donations, because my publishers
are really important to me. They contribute immeasurably to the book,
improving it, introducing it to an audience I could never reach, helping
me do more with my work. I have no desire to cut them out of the loop.

But there has to be some good way to turn that generosity to good use, and
I think I've found it.

Here's the deal: there are lots of teachers and librarians who'd love to
get hard-copies of this book into their kids' hands, but don't have the
budget for it (teachers in the US spend around $1,200 out of pocket each
on classroom supplies that their budgets won't stretch to cover, which is
why I sponsor a classroom at Ivanhoe Elementary in my old neighborhood in
Los Angeles; you can adopt a class yourself here).

There are generous people who want to send some cash my way to thank me
for the free ebooks.

I'm proposing that we put them together.

If you're a teacher or librarian and you want a free copy of Little
Brother, email freelittlebrother@gmail.com with your name and the name and
address of your school. It'll be posted to my site by my fantastic helper,
Olga Nunes, so that potential donors can see it.

If you enjoyed the electronic edition of Little Brother and you want to
donate something to say thanks, go here and find a teacher or librarian
you want to support. Then go to Amazon, BN.com, or your favorite
electronic bookseller and order a copy to the classroom, then email a copy
of the receipt (feel free to delete your address and other personal info
first!) to freelittlebrother@gmail.com so that Olga can mark that copy as
sent. If you don't want to be publicly acknowledged for your generosity,
let us know and we'll keep you anonymous, otherwise we'll thank you on the
donate page.

I have no idea if this will end up with hundreds, dozens or just a few
copies going out -- but I have high hopes!
