I'm a Canadian, and I've lived in lots of places (including San Francisco,
the setting for Little Brother), and now I live in London, England, with
my wife Alice and our little daughter, Poesy. I've lived here (off and on)
for five years now, and though I love it to tiny pieces, there's one thing
that's always bugged me: my books aren't available here. Some stores
carried them as special items, imported from the USA, but it wasn't
published by a British publisher.

That's changed! HarperCollins UK has bought the British rights to this
book (along with my next young adult novel, FOR THE WIN), and they're
publishing it just a few months after the US edition, on November 17, 2008
(the day after I get back from my honeymoon!).

Update, November 27, 2008: And it's on shelves now! The HarperCollins
edition's a knockout, too!

I'm so glad about this, I could bust, honestly. Not just because they're
finally selling my books in my adopted homeland, but because I'm raising
a daughter here, dammit, and the surveillance and control mania in this
country is starting to scare me bloodless. It seems like the entire police
and governance system in Britain has fallen in love with DNA-swabbing,
fingerprinting and video-recording everyone, on the off chance that
someday you might do something wrong. In early 2008, the head of Scotland
Yard seriously proposed taking DNA from five-year-olds who display
"offending traits" because they'll probably grow up to be criminals. The
next week, the London police put up posters asking us all to turn in
people who seem to be taking pictures of the ubiquitous CCTV spy-cameras
because anyone who pays too much attention to the surveillance machine is
probably a terrorist.

America isn't the only country that lost its mind this decade. Britain's
right there in the nuthouse with it, dribbling down its shirt front and
pointing its finger at the invisible bogeymen and screaming until it gets
its meds.

We need to be having this conversation all over the planet.

Want to get a copy in the UK? [Sure
thing!](http://craphound.com/littlebrother/buy/#uk)
