I wrote Little Brother in a white-hot fury between May 7, 2007 and July 2,
2007: exactly eight weeks from the day I thought it up to the day I finished it
(Alice, to whom this book is dedicated, had to put up with me clacking out the
final chapter at 5AM in our hotel in Rome, where we were celebrating our
anniversary). I'd always dreamed of having a book just materialize, fully
formed, and come pouring out of my fingertips, no sweat and fuss -- but it
wasn't nearly as much fun as I'd thought it would be. There were days when
I wrote 10,000 words, hunching over my keyboard in airports, on subways, in
taxis -- anywhere I could type. The book was trying to get out of my head, no
matter what, and I missed so much sleep and so many meals that friends started
to ask if I was unwell.

When my dad was a young university student in the 1960s, he was one of the few
"counterculture" people who thought computers were a good thing. For most young
people, computers represented the de-humanization of society. University
students were reduced to numbers on a punchcard, each bearing the legend "DO
NOT BEND, SPINDLE, FOLD OR MUTILATE," prompting some of the students to wear
pins that said, "I AM A STUDENT: DO NOT BEND, SPINDLE, FOLD OR MUTILATE ME."
Computers were seen as a means to increase the ability of the authorities to
regiment people and bend them to their will.

When I was 17, the world seemed like it was just going to get more free. The
Berlin Wall was about to come down. Computers -- which had been geeky and weird
a few years before -- were everywhere, and the modem I'd used to connect to
local bulletin board systems was now connecting me to the entire world through
the Internet and commercial online services like GEnie. My lifelong fascination
with activist causes went into overdrive as I saw how the main difficulty in
activism -- organizing -- was getting easier by leaps and bounds (I still
remember the first time I switched from mailing out a newsletter with
hand-written addresses to using a database with mail-merge). In the Soviet
Union, communications tools were being used to bring information -- and
revolution -- to the farthest-flung corners of the largest authoritarian state
the Earth had ever seen.

But 17 years later, things are very different. The computers I love are being
co-opted, used to spy on us, control us, snitch on us. The National Security
Agency has illegally wiretapped the entire USA and gotten away with it. Car
rental companies and mass transit and traffic authorities are watching where we
go, sending us automated tickets, finking us out to busybodies, cops and bad
guys who gain illicit access to their databases. The Transport Security
Administration maintains a "no-fly" list of people who'd never been convicted
of any crime, but who are nevertheless considered too dangerous to fly. The
list's contents are secret. The rule that makes it enforceable is secret. The
criteria for being added to the list are secret. It has four-year-olds on it.
And US senators. And decorated veterans -- actual war heroes.

The 17 year olds I know understand to a nicety just how dangerous a computer
can be. The authoritarian nightmare of the 1960s has come home for them. The
seductive little boxes on their desks and in their pockets watch their every
move, corral them in, systematically depriving them of those new freedoms I had
enjoyed and made such good use of in my young adulthood.

What's more, kids were clearly being used as guinea-pigs for a new kind of
technological state that all of us were on our way to, a world where taking
a picture was either piracy (in a movie theater or museum or even a Starbucks),
or terrorism (in a public place), but where we could be photographed, tracked
and logged hundreds of times a day by every tin-pot dictator, cop, bureaucrat
and shop-keeper. A world where any measure, including torture, could be
justified just by waving your hands and shouting "Terrorism! 9/11! Terrorism!"
until all dissent fell silent.

We don't have to go down that road.

If you love freedom, if you think the human condition is dignified by privacy,
by the right to be left alone, by the right to explore your weird ideas
provided you don't hurt others, then you have common cause with the kids whose
web-browsers and cell phones are being used to lock them up and follow them
around.

If you believe that the answer to bad speech is more speech -- not censorship
-- then you have a dog in the fight.

If you believe in a society of laws, a land where our rulers have to tell us
the rules, and have to follow them too, then you're part of the same struggle
that kids fight when they argue for the right to live under the same Bill of
Rights that adults have.

This book is meant to be part of the conversation about what an information
society means: does it mean total control, or unheard-of liberty? It's not just
a noun, it's a verb, it's something you do.

