Now, to exfiltrate the campus in perfect anonymity and make our escape.

Darryl opened the door and began to move out, me on his heels. A second later, he was 
standing on my toes, elbows jammed into my chest, as he tried to back-pedal into the 
closet-sized kitchen we'd just left.

"Get back," he whispered urgently. "Quick -- it's Charles!"

Charles Walker and I don't get along. We're in the same grade, and we've known each 
other as long as I've known Darryl, but that's where the resemblance ends. Charles has 
always been big for his age, and now that he's playing football and on the juice, he's 
even bigger. He's got anger management problems -- I lost a milk-tooth to him in the 
third grade -- and he's managed to keep from getting in trouble over them by becoming 
the most active snitch in school.

It's a bad combination, a bully who also snitches, taking great pleasure in going to the 
teachers with whatever infractions he's found. Benson loved Charles. Charles liked to 
let on that he had some kind of unspecified bladder problem, which gave him a ready-made 
excuse to prowl the hallways at Chavez, looking for people to fink on.

The last time Charles had caught some dirt on me, it had ended with me giving up 
LARPing. I had no intention of being caught by him again.

"What's he doing?"

"He's coming this way is what he's doing," Darryl said. He was shaking.

"OK," I said. "OK, time for emergency countermeasures." I got my phone out. I'd planned this well in advance. Charles would never get me again. I emailed my server at home, and it got into motion.

A few seconds later, Charles's phone spazzed out spectacularly. I'd had tens of 
thousands of simultaneous random calls and text messages sent to it, causing every chirp 
and ring it had to go off and keep on going off. The attack was accomplished by means of 
a botnet, and for that I felt bad, but it was in the service of a good cause.

Botnets are where infected computers spend their afterlives. When you get a worm or a 
virus, your computer sends a message to a chat channel on IRC -- the Internet Relay 
Chat. That message tells the botmaster -- the guy who deployed the worm -- that the 
computers are there ready to do his bidding. Botnets are supremely powerful, since they 
can comprise thousands, even hundreds of thousands of computers, scattered all over the 
Internet, connected to juicy high-speed connections and running on fast home PCs. Those 
PCs normally function on behalf of their owners, but when the botmaster calls them, they 
rise like zombies to do his bidding.

There are so many infected PCs on the Internet that the price of hiring an hour or two 
on a botnet has crashed. Mostly these things work for spammers as cheap, distributed 
spambots, filling your mailbox with come-ons for boner-pills or with new viruses that 
can infect you and recruit your machine to join the botnet.

I'd just rented 10 seconds' time on three thousand PCs and had each of them send a text 
message or voice-over-IP call to Charles's phone, whose number I'd extracted from a 
sticky note on Benson's desk during one fateful office-visit.

Needless to say, Charles's phone was not equipped to handle this. First the SMSes filled 
the memory on his phone, causing it to start choking on the routine operations it needed 
to do things like manage the ringer and log all those incoming calls' bogus return 
numbers (did you know that it's really easy to fake the return number on a caller ID? 
There are about fifty ways of doing it -- just google "spoof caller id").

Charles stared at it dumbfounded, and jabbed at it furiously, his thick eyebrows 
knotting and wiggling as he struggled with the demons that had possessed his most 
personal of devices. The plan was working so far, but he wasn't doing what he was 
supposed to be doing next -- he was supposed to go find some place to sit down and try 
to figure out how to get his phone back.

Darryl shook me by the shoulder, and I pulled my eye away from the crack in the door.

"What's he doing?" Darryl whispered.

"I totaled his phone, but he's just staring at it now instead of moving on." It wasn't 
going to be easy to reboot that thing. Once the memory was totally filled, it would have 
a hard time loading the code it needed to delete the bogus messages -- and there was no 
bulk-erase for texts on his phone, so he'd have to manually delete all of the thousands 
of messages.

Darryl shoved me back and stuck his eye up to the door. A moment later, his shoulders 
started to shake. I got scared, thinking he was panicking, but when he pulled back, I 
saw that he was laughing so hard that tears were streaming down his cheeks.

"Galvez just totally busted him for being in the halls during class and for having his 
phone out -- you should have seen her tear into him. She was really enjoying it."

We shook hands solemnly and snuck back out of the corridor, down the stairs, around the 
back, out the door, past the fence and out into the glorious sunlight of afternoon in 
the Mission. Valencia Street had never looked so good. I checked my watch and yelped.

"Let's move! The rest of the gang is meeting us at the cable-cars in twenty minutes!"

