Then the world changed forever.

We felt it first, that sickening lurch of the cement under your feet that every 
Californian knows instinctively -- earthquake. My first inclination, as always, was to 
get away: "when in trouble or in doubt, run in circles, scream and shout." But the fact 
was, we were already in the safest place we could be, not in a building that could fall 
in on us, not out toward the middle of the road where bits of falling cornice could 
brain us.

Earthquakes are eerily quiet -- at first, anyway -- but this wasn't quiet. This was 
loud, an incredible roaring sound that was louder than anything I'd ever heard before. 
The sound was so punishing it drove me to my knees, and I wasn't the only one. Darryl 
shook my arm and pointed over the buildings and we saw it then: a huge black cloud 
rising from the northeast, from the direction of the Bay.

There was another rumble, and the cloud of smoke spread out, that spreading black shape 
we'd all grown up seeing in movies. Someone had just blown up something, in a big way.

There were more rumbles and more tremors. Heads appeared at windows up and down the 
street. We all looked at the mushroom cloud in silence.

Then the sirens started.

I'd heard sirens like these before -- they test the civil defense sirens at noon on 
Tuesdays. But I'd only heard them go off unscheduled in old war movies and video games, 
the kind where someone is bombing someone else from above. Air raid sirens. The wooooooo 
sound made it all less real.

"Report to shelters immediately." It was like the voice of God, coming from all places 
at once. There were speakers on some of the electric poles, something I'd never noticed 
before, and they'd all switched on at once.

"Report to shelters immediately." Shelters? We looked at each other in confusion. What 
shelters? The cloud was rising steadily, spreading out. Was it nuclear? Were we 
breathing in our last breaths?

The girl with the pink hair grabbed her friends and they tore ass downhill, back toward 
the BART station and the foot of the hills.

"REPORT TO SHELTERS IMMEDIATELY." There was screaming now, and a lot of running around. 
Tourists -- you can always spot the tourists, they're the ones who think CALIFORNIA = 
WARM and spend their San Francisco holidays freezing in shorts and t-shirts -- scattered 
in every direction.

"We should go!" Darryl hollered in my ear, just barely audible over the shrieking of the 
sirens, which had been joined by traditional police sirens. A dozen SFPD cruisers 
screamed past us.

"REPORT TO SHELTERS IMMEDIATELY."

"Down to the BART station," I hollered. My friends nodded. We closed ranks and began to 
move quickly downhill.
