"I'm thinking of majoring in physics when I go to Berkeley," Darryl said. His dad taught 
at the University of California at Berkeley, which meant he'd get free tuition when he 
went. And there'd never been any question in Darryl's household about whether he'd go.

"Fine, but couldn't you research it online?"

"My dad said I should read it. Besides, I didn't plan on committing any crimes today."

"Skipping school isn't a crime. It's an infraction. They're totally different."

"What are we going to do, Marcus?"

"Well, I can't hide it, so I'm going to have to nuke it." Killing arphids is a dark art. 
No merchant wants malicious customers going for a walk around the shop-floor and leaving 
behind a bunch of lobotomized merchandise that is missing its invisible bar-code, so the 
manufacturers have refused to implement a "kill signal" that you can radio to an arphid 
to get it to switch off. You can reprogram arphids with the right box, but I hate doing 
that to library books. It's not exactly tearing pages out of a book, but it's still bad, 
since a book with a reprogrammed arphid can't be shelved and can't be found. It just 
becomes a needle in a haystack.

That left me with only one option: nuking the thing. Literally. 30 seconds in a 
microwave will do in pretty much every arphid on the market. And because the arphid 
wouldn't answer at all when D checked it back in at the library, they'd just print a 
fresh one for it and recode it with the book's catalog info, and it would end up clean 
and neat back on its shelf.

All we needed was a microwave.

"Give it another two minutes and the teacher's lounge will be empty," I said.

Darryl grabbed his book at headed for the door. "Forget it, no way. I'm going to class."

I snagged his elbow and dragged him back. "Come on, D, easy now. It'll be fine."

"The teacher's lounge? Maybe you weren't listening, Marcus. If I get busted just once more, I am expelled. You hear that? Expelled."

"You won't get caught," I said. The one place a teacher wouldn't be after this period 
was the lounge. "We'll go in the back way." The lounge had a little kitchenette off to 
one side, with its own entrance for teachers who just wanted to pop in and get a cup of 
joe. The microwave -- which always reeked of popcorn and spilled soup -- was right in 
there, on top of the miniature fridge.

Darryl groaned. I thought fast. "Look, the bell's already rung. If you go to study hall 
now, you'll get a late-slip. Better not to show at all at this point. I can infiltrate 
and exfiltrate any room on this campus, D. You've seen me do it. I'll keep you safe, bro."

He groaned again. That was one of Darryl's tells: once he starts groaning, he's ready to 
give in.

"Let's roll," I said, and we took off.

It was flawless. We skirted the classrooms, took the back stairs into the basement, and 
came up the front stairs right in front of the teachers' lounge. Not a sound came from 
the door, and I quietly turned the knob and dragged Darryl in before silently closing 
the door.

The book just barely fit in the microwave, which was looking even less sanitary than it 
had the last time I'd popped in here to use it. I conscientiously wrapped it in paper 
towels before I set it down. "Man, teachers are pigs," I hissed. Darryl, white faced and 
tense, said nothing.

The arphid died in a shower of sparks, which was really quite lovely (though not nearly 
as pretty as the effect you get when you nuke a frozen grape, which has to be seen to be 
believed).
