Van spotted us first. She was blending in with a group of Korean tourists, which is one 
of her favorite ways of camouflaging herself when she's ditching school. Ever since the 
truancy moblog went live, our world is full of nosy shopkeepers and pecksniffs who take 
it upon themselves to snap our piccies and put them on the net where they can be perused 
by school administrators.

She came out of the crowd and bounded toward us. Darryl has had a thing for Van since 
forever, and she's sweet enough to pretend she doesn't know it. She gave me a hug and 
then moved onto Darryl, giving him a quick sisterly kiss on the cheek that made him go 
red to the tops of his ears.

The two of them made a funny pair: Darryl is a little on the heavy side, though he wears 
it well, and he's got a kind of pink complexion that goes red in the cheeks whenever he 
runs or gets excited. He's been able to grow a beard since we were 14, but thankfully he 
started shaving after a brief period known to our gang as "the Lincoln years." And he's 
tall. Very, very tall. Like basketball player tall.

Meanwhile, Van is half a head shorter than me, and skinny, with straight black hair that 
she wears in crazy, elaborate braids that she researches on the net. She's got pretty 
coppery skin and dark eyes, and she loves big glass rings the size of radishes, which 
click and clack together when she dances.

"Where's Jolu?" she said.

"How are you, Van?" Darryl asked in a choked voice. He always ran a step behind the 
conversation when it came to Van.

"I'm great, D. How's your every little thing?" Oh, she was a bad, bad person. Darryl 
nearly fainted.

Jolu saved him from social disgrace by showing up just then, in an oversize leather 
baseball jacket, sharp sneakers, and a meshback cap advertising our favorite Mexican 
masked wrestler, El Santo Junior. Jolu is Jose Luis Torrez, the completing member of our 
foursome. He went to a super-strict Catholic school in the Outer Richmond, so it wasn't 
easy for him to get out. But he always did: no one exfiltrated like our Jolu. He liked 
his jacket because it hung down low -- which was pretty stylish in parts of the city -- 
and covered up all his Catholic school crap, which was like a bulls-eye for nosy jerks 
with the truancy moblog bookmarked on their phones.

"Who's ready to go?" I asked, once we'd all said hello. I pulled out my phone and showed 
them the map I'd downloaded to it on the BART. "Near as I can work out, we wanna go up 
to the Nikko again, then one block past it to O'Farrell, then left up toward Van Ness. 
Somewhere in there we should find the wireless signal."

Van made a face. "That's a nasty part of the Tenderloin." I couldn't argue with her. 
That part of San Francisco is one of the weird bits -- you go in through the Hilton's 
front entrance and it's all touristy stuff like the cable-car turnaround and family 
restaurants. Go through to the other side and you're in the 'Loin, where every tracked 
out transvestite hooker, hard-case pimp, hissing drug dealer and cracked up homeless 
person in town was concentrated. What they bought and sold, none of us were old enough 
to be a part of (though there were plenty of hookers our age plying their trade in the 
'Loin.)

"Look on the bright side," I said. "The only time you want to go up around there is broad daylight. None of the other players are going to go near it until tomorrow at the earliest. This is what we in the ARG business call a monster head start."

Jolu grinned at me. "You make it sound like a good thing," he said.

"Beats eating uni," I said.

"We going to talk or we going to win?" Van said. After me, she was hands-down the most hardcore player in our group. She took winning very, very seriously.

We struck out, four good friends, on our way to decode a clue, win the game -- and lose everything we cared about, forever.
