"Gait" is a fancy word for the way you walk. People are pretty good at spotting gaits -- 
next time you're on a camping trip, check out the bobbing of the flashlight as a distant 
friend approaches you. Chances are you can identify him just from the movement of the 
light, the characteristic way it bobs up and down that tells our monkey brains that this 
is a person approaching us.

Gait recognition software takes pictures of your motion, tries to isolate you in the 
pics as a silhouette, and then tries to match the silhouette to a database to see if it 
knows who you are. It's a biometric identifier, like fingerprints or retina-scans, but 
it's got a lot more "collisions" than either of those. A biometric "collision" is when a 
measurement matches more than one person. Only you have your fingerprint, but you share 
your gait with plenty other people.

Not exactly, of course. Your personal, inch-by-inch walk is yours and yours alone. The 
problem is your inch-by-inch walk changes based on how tired you are, what the floor is 
made of, whether you pulled your ankle playing basketball, and whether you've changed 
your shoes lately. So the system kind of fuzzes-out your profile, looking for people who 
walk kind of like you.

There are a lot of people who walk kind of like you. What's more, it's easy not to walk 
kind of like you -- just take one shoe off. Of course, you'll always walk like 
you-with-one-shoe-off in that case, so the cameras will eventually figure out that it's 
still you. Which is why I prefer to inject a little randomness into my attacks on 
gait-recognition: I put a handful of gravel into each shoe. Cheap and effective, and no 
two steps are the same. Plus you get a great reflexology foot massage in the process (I 
kid. Reflexology is about as scientifically useful as gait-recognition).

The cameras used to set off an alert every time someone they didn't recognize stepped 
onto campus.

This did not work.

The alarm went off every ten minutes. When the mailman came by. When a parent dropped 
in. When the grounds-people went to work fixing up the basketball court. When a student 
showed up wearing new shoes.

So now it just tries to keep track of who's where and when. If someone leaves by the 
school-gates during classes, their gait is checked to see if it kinda-sorta matches any 
student gait and if it does, whoop-whoop-whoop, ring the alarm!
